Add Comcast recap post (#378)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2022-11-30-trino-summit-2022-comcast-recap.md

---
layout: post

> title: "Elevating Data Fabric to Data Mesh: solving data needs in hybrid data lakes"

Reviewer: Title case and date change please

author: "Sajuman Joseph, Brian Olsen"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-summit-2022/comcast.jpg
---

> Tune in, for the next [post in the Trino Summit 2022 recap series]({% post_url

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tune in for the next [post in the Trino Summit 2022 recap series]({% post_url
```

> 2022-11-21-trino-summit-2022-recap %}). In this post, we're joining "Saj" from

Reviewer 2: If you're gonna write "Saj" in quotes, it should be as Sajuman "Saj" Joseph. Otherwise, just Saj without quotes is fine. I'd probably lean towards doing the latter.

Comcast, to talk about their migration from a data fabric to data mesh. Saj

> shows you there's more to the buzzword than meets the eye, and gives a solid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
shows you there's more to the buzzword than meets the eye and gives a solid
```

overview of why Comcast is taking data mesh to heart.

<!--more-->

{% youtube sSWBi7bBotQ %}

<a class="btn btn-pink btn-md" target="_blank" href="/assets/blog/trino-summit-2022/Trino@Comcast.pdf">
  Check out the slides here!
</a>

## Recap

> Comcast engineer, Sajuman Joseph, brings us through the process they went
> through at Comcast to move from their initial use case of using Trino to power

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Comcast engineer Sajuman Joseph brings us through Comcast's process
to move from their initial use case of using Trino to power
```
Wording it this way makes the pronouns a little clearer - it otherwise reads like you're trying to use a singular "they" to refer to Saj.

their data fabric architecture to include more governance features by
leveraging Trino. Data fabric enables querying data across distributed data

> sets, but importantly, enabled Comcast to transparently migrate data across

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sets, but importantly, it enabled Comcast to transparently migrate data across
```

> on-prem and cloud storage without any user knowledge.

Reviewer 2: "knowledge" feels a little weird as the word here. Maybe user impact?

Despite offering query federation, data fabric still misses out on a higher

> quality experience that data mesh aims to solve. Not only having access to the

Reviewer 2: I think it needs to be "higher-quality" with a hyphen.

> quality experience that data mesh aims to solve. Not only having access to the
> data matters, but ensuring that the data has quality checks and a dedicated
> owner that ensures the data is correct and consumable. The ownership is split

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
quality experience that data mesh aims to solve. Not only does having access to the
data matter, but so does ensuring that the data has quality checks and a dedicated
owner to ensures the data is correct and consumable. The ownership is split
```
I'd also reword a little, the two "ensure"s back to back feels repetitive.

> by domains defined by Comcast. It is the responsibility of the owners to ensure

Reviewer 2: This "ensure" too. I think just one use of the word is enough, maybe we can get away with two, but definitely not three.

data quality, compliance, and security on the data they own. This data can be

> exposed internally or externally as a data product. While much of the drivers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
exposed internally or externally as a data product. While many of the drivers
```

for this are done through company policy, there are technical means to make this
possible. This starts from improving metadata on the data, access logs, global
data catalogs, and managing data access.

Trino facilitates the single point of access and is the one location where you
will need to enforce a lot of these policies. Comcast created an engine called

> the Enterprise Policy Hub, that syncs with all data stores and compute engines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Enterprise Policy Hub, which syncs with all data stores and compute engines
```
or
```suggestion
the Enterprise Policy Hub that syncs with all data stores and compute engines
```

> to enforce company policy and update metadata on all data across Comcast. Trino

Reviewer 2: We're going from future tense ("you will need to") to past ("Comcast created") very quickly here, which is a little jarring. I'd probably try to make the first sentence present tense.

> to enforce company policy and update metadata on all data across Comcast. Trino

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to enforce company policy and update metadata on all data across Comcast. Trino,
```
